>> We find ourselves at 15,000
feet surrounded by swathes
of people in service,
in community, and joy.
We're standing at the edge of
a frigidly cold glacial lake
with an opportunity to dip in.
Not to tick the box and
say, we did it, but possibly
to surrender just for
a moment to something
bigger than ourselves.
>> Mountains say to me,
let's stop being arrogant.
Be a child.
Don't grow old and
wither away, crumble.
Mountains that we have seen
many of you come and many of you
go, each and every one
of you with your ideas,
and your stories,
and your ideologies.
We have seen you rise and we
have seen you crumble down.
Right here we are.
So they're saying, be a child.
Grow up, but never
stop being a child.
[THEME MUSIC]
This is not a journey
to feel better.
Do you understand?
You come here to transcend.
>> The lake at Hemkund Sahib is
a nearly freezing temperature.
There's no towels, no heaters.
But the group is especially
supportive of each other.
This feeling of
service and community
up here is absolutely
contagious.
>> I already went.
You didn't see me?
You missed it.
My ankles are
really going for it.
>> Five dips is what Anand said.
>> Is it a five-dipper?
>> That's what he did.
>> Oh, that's what he did.
>> So I'll keep pace with him.
>> I hear seven.
>> Seven?
>> When you look at Mark,
he's just this great big hulk
of a guy, you know.
And he looks like he could
really be intimidating.
But he's just one of
the most down to Earth,
sweet guys you're ever
going to want to meet.
>> You know, Mark is the only
guy that's bigger than I am
here.
And he's kind of a great guy.
And he said, you're going in?
I said, I don't know.
>> I said, Fred, are you
going to go in the water?
He goes, oh my god, I'm not
going to go in that water.
It's freezing cold.
I go, Fred, we're up here.
It's a glacier lake.
It's pure.
You've got to go.
OK, I'm going to go.
So he came with me.
And I thought at the last
minute, he wasn't going to go.
He just stripped down,
boom, took his clothes off.
He was the first one.
I was like, wow, Fred, I'm
really proud of you, you know.
And I think he was proud
of himself by doing that.
>> Well, I can tell you that
the encouragement from the other
people in the group is
very important to me.
They've all been really
kind, encouraging, helpful,
especially considerate.
It was really fun.
I'm glad I did it.
>> Fred, he's 75 years old.
He came from a generation that
your wife looked after you.
This is how things are.
It's the war generation.
And I've just watched
him kind of unfold
as this whole thing goes.
Just like a sponge, he
just keeps soaking it in
and soaking it in.
And good for him.
I'm proud of him all
the way for sure.
>> Last night, he was telling
me that this is the strongest he
has felt in years.
He's the oldest he has
ever been right now
and this is the strongest
he has felt in years.
And we were talking,
I said because--
I told him, because you're
not identifying just
with your body.
There's something
greater pulling you.
You're accessing something
deeper in yourself.
And he said, yes.
His eyes were full when
he talked about it.
And he said, I'm going
home more aware, stronger,
and more present.
I think that's the real
purpose of the journey.
So people are really tapping
in, getting stronger,
getting more silent, mostly.
A few have a little
more money to do.
And hopefully, by the
time we are in Rishikesh,
they'll surrender their
little defense mechanisms
which are still going on.
>> I'm really proud of you, man.
>> Thanks, Mark.
>> Really provided evidence to
someone who is very analytical
that there is something
beyond physical.
And the nature of the beast is
I need the proof, if you will.
Although, I've heard
repeatedly, Ken,
just kind of jump in the
water, and embrace, it
and don't test the
temperature, and the like.
>> You know, I wish us
women kind of gone in like
the extraordinary area.
Our area was like a dungeon.
So I'm standing in there and
I asked the woman next to me.
And she's a little
scared, because she
doesn't know English.
She taps on her daughter to
try and talk to me, because I'm
saying, do we go naked?
Do we wear underwear?
What do I do?
Everyone's giggling and it was
a very sweet feminine moment
everyone just getting
into it and kind
of laughing, and giggling,
kind of screaming,
because it's so cold.
And then rushing to put
on our clothes again.
>> I mean, I think the
journey is not yet done.
We are going to be in Rishikesh
where further integration will
happen.
The most important
work will happen
once we get back down on the
banks of the divine mother
Ganga and we go do
some introspection.
Because people have
been going, they
don't realize how
much has shifted.
>> That was an
unbelievable experience,
climbing straight
up the mountain,
going into that nectar, chanting
in the temples, coming down.
I mean, that was
a great last peak
to climb before preparing for
that little mountain road.
>> The longest ride,
so stay focused.
In the long wide, what happens
after a while, you know,
you just lose a little focus.
So stay present, stay focused.
Got it?
All right, let's tune in.
Stay connect to the
breath, deep breath.
Connect it to the mountains,
the road, to the sky,
to nature, to every being
in the circle and out.
Visualize in your
mind's eye everybody
arriving at the central
center and at Lakshman
Jhula safe, sound, and happy.
>> Anand has set out a very
long day of riding to get
to our home base of Rishikesh.
To make it there would
be a 12 hour ride,
covering 285 kilometers.
And in India, things
never go as planned.
The thought of riding
12 hours after 20 days
of constant hiking
and biking is only
tempered by the allure of
our peaceful destination
on the Holy Ganga river.
And as Anand said,
follow the river home.
>> If I go back and I'm more
loving and Jeff is more loving,
then that's, at
least, a huge start.
>> Selflessness, inclusion of
all, not exclusion, inclusion.
That's a strong principle.
A woman will test
the man on that.
And if he's weak, she will
lose all respect for him.
So one of the strong
principles should
be an expansive view, a
grander sense of life,
a grander sense of
self, a selflessness,
not a self-centered living.
It's not about me.
All I want is a
true man will test
and she would not respect
the man, even though she
might feel happy in the moment.
So till you're in
your power, you're
trying to feed off
each other, and you're
going to destroy each other.
And that, of course, to
every individual according
to their understanding
and their person
and they had to come up
with their principles.
And not to confuse principles
with dogma or just opinions.
Principles are beyond your
conditioned way of thinking.
They are more universal.
They not only heal
you, but heal everybody
around you and the world.
>> All of a sudden, we hear
that bang, bang, bang, bang,
crinkle, crinkle, crash.
Look down and there it was.
Yeah, just throw it in the car.
It makes it sound better.
Faster too.
>> I always thought,
yeah, dude, I got it.
I'm spiritual.
I know I'm kind-hearted.
And I still think that,
but now, you know, there's
still a guideline that I can
try to take home and instill
with my family.
That's what this
trip's all about.
Drop the frickin'
ego about everything.
Now, figure it out and then go
home and be the man and be the,
I guess, leader for
my kids and my wife.
We can all get together.
>> And then that's
when I was like, well,
we can either just start over
or keep bringing up things from
the past.
He's like, OK, let's start over.
>> I've said it before, I
wish she was here with me,
more for the experience then
than I actually miss her.
That's where my heart is.
While we're talking about
Kim, can I show you this?
She gave me this a couple
of days before I left.
It says, my hero, because I'm
getting back on the bike after
I more or less swore up
and down that I wouldn't.
And she encouraged me to do it.
Yeah, so I am her hero.
>> At this point, we're still
150 kilometers from Rishikesh.
We're running out of
light and encountering
some interesting traffic.
>> There was a crossroads and I
ended up taking the upper road,
because it looked like
the most traveled,
so I thought that
was the right road.
0.5 kilometers, boom,
the tire blew out.
Pretty bad blow out.
I mean, it was
one of those bang.
And the tire went flat.
You know, it was
managed to get the bike
off the side of the road.
So I guess, yeah,
good thing if I
wouldn't have had a
blow out I. Probably
would have went who knows
how far before I realized
I was going in the
wrong direction.
But luckily, within 10
minutes, the mechanic
came along right
behind me and he
had the tire off
and five minutes,
put it on the back of
his bike, and took off.
>> As night starts to set in,
these roads get even crazier.
The winding truck-filled
sheer cliffs
now become a sea of
blackness with blinding
white lights and no idea
of where the edges are.
I decide to pull over
wondering if we should just
stop, regroup, and maybe stay
overnight rather than risk
driving for hours and
hours in the dark.
The only problem is Ryan and
Anand are somewhere up ahead
of us.
>> It's pretty spooky when
the truck's coming at you
and whatnot.
Not many railings
up around in there.
And there's cars too wide.
There's trucks that they're
pushing me off the road.
And you know, you've
got to be right there.
And just the way the
truck lights come forward,
it's kind of blinding.
You don't see for a minute.
Really if it wasn't for
Ana, she was like a rock.
She just kept telling me,
you know, it's all right.
Take your time.
We're going to get there.
And maybe I should
have stopped, but I
didn't want to be the only
guy that didn't show up here
last night.
>> Evolution in its very
nature is discontinuous,
meaning that has to come a point
where whatever exists ceases
to exist the way it has
for however long it has.
There has to be a
total quantum leap.
And that's what we are
really coming together
for that quantum leap
can only occur right
now in this very
moment where you said,
you know what, that's
what's going to happen.
And then every
part of your being
supports you in the
follow through of that.
The mind will come back and try
and interfere after a while.
But that's what we have to
be vigilant and aware to keep
the continuity.
Again, the mind will start
using whatever we have developed
as an escape mechanism.
For instance, whatever
it is, the mind
will start using it as
an escape mechanism.
And then you, again, still have
to create, again, quantum leap.
And that's what
creates a radically
alive, passionate,
compassionate life, you see.
Otherwise, we're
simply vegetating
And I think that's where
the most important part
of our growth and our
evolution as individuals
and as a community and society.
And that's what, for me, has
been one of the great practice
is that in the moment.
OK, where do I need
to leap right now?
Not because of waiting,
oh, when that will happen,
or when will I have more money,
or when will I have that,
and when the weather
will be better.
No, you decide right
now what needs to leap.
>> So last night, I made a
decision we'd keep the group
at the hotel.
We didn't want to
risk riding at night
on these treacherous roads.
And it definitely
was a small window
to see what it's like to lead.
And I don't think Anand
created that on purpose.
But as a teacher, I'd
say he definitely lets
experience do the teachings.
He allows for opportunities
and for windows for me
to see what it entails to lead.
>> We've all dealt with
circumstances on this trip
going beyond the
previous circumstances.
But I think it's also important
then to take it a step further
and say, how can I
add to the situation?
Rather than just, OK,
how can I be free now,
how can I add to what's
going on around me?
Keep that presence,
which Anand started
to talk about, the valley of
flowers and a lot of people
not being leaders.
So we appreciate everyone
doing that, holding space.
We all held space last
night for Mark get back safe
and the mechanic stepped
up and helped him out tons.
So that was sweet.
>> I think the biggest fear for
me was the transformation that
I was going to go through and
I am going to, because change
of life is scary.
So for me, it's like
crossroads in my life.
I haven't yet come
to a decision.
Whatever is going to
happen will happen.
I mean, the universe
takes care of you
and leads you in
the right direction.
>> With 70 kilometers
ahead of us this morning,
we're seeing just how washed out
some of these roads really are.
And imagining riding
them last night,
tired, blinded by
lights, I'm just
incredibly happy that Ryan
and Anand made it back safely
to Rishikesh.
Because even in daylight,
we witnessed a near death
accident.
>> So we're definitely focused
for this last leg of riding,
while back in Rishikesh, Ryan is
focused on helping Ana take out
the stitches from when she
knocked her head on a rock
a week ago.
>> There you go.
>> All good?
>> Yeah, all good.
>> I think we're all realizing
how many close calls we've had
throughout this whole journey
and how protected we've been,
kind of this crazy grace
on a trip like this.
As we arrive home
in Rishikesh, we
take time to dip into the
sacred waters of the Ganga.
But we, of course, remember
the warnings Anand has given us
at the beginning of the trip.
>> So they got super
excited, they think it's a--
it becomes part of a
religious thing, right?
So they go and the
dip and they get
so excited that they are
in the Ganga, you know,
which is the
epitome of Hinduism.
And then the mother
takes them and then
she's not a mother anymore.
She's a witch.
>> The Ganga still raging
with the force of monsoons.
But thankfully, the group
finds a nice safe place
to dip and have a
lighthearted splash.
Anand, ever the
adventurer, has decided
to take some of the group up
the river looking for a place
to swim across this
still incredibly fast
and raging Ganga River.
Along the way, he finds
himself a nice little surprise.
>> Oh, no.
>> Ryan, does your
heart beat faster?
>> A little bit.
I don't remember.
I don't know if I'm going.
>> This is not a journey thing.
You do not have to do this.
You did everything
you need to do.
This is pure stupid fun.
Stupid.
So, Ma Ganga, Divine Mother.
Just do it.
Don't do it if you
don't feel like it.
All right?
>> I watched all those guys go.
And I said to myself
45 seconds before it
happened, Jeff's getting
tired of dicking around.
He's just going to go.
And he did.
>> I knew Jeff was going to be
the first one that will fucking
do it.
>> And then Mario
and those guys.
And I watched the whole thing
while I had one of the GoPros.
I saw Jeff and Adam both
get taken into that eddy.
And Jeff started to have a
little bit of a panic session.
And I saw him go under
a couple of times.
And I was really starting
to panic, you know.
And having only known
these guys a short time,
it seems kind of weird.
But, you know, they're
like brothers to me now.
[WHISTLING]
>> Where the fuck is Jeff?
Where the fuck is Jeff?
>> I suppose it's ironic
having avoided death,
and road killer traffic, and
monsoon-destroyed cliffs that
now back in Rishikesh on my
birthday of all days here
in the sacred Ganga
River, I'm about to drown.
>> Moved away, only
love makes you move.
Never moved away,
fear makes you move.
Because all movement that
originates out of fear
will lead you to violence.
Only move the way
love makes you move.
Because when you
move through fear,
you're only seeking
escape, not life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Carry me, your child.
I've always been.
Oh, mother.
>> And she put three drops of
the Ganga's water in his mouth
and he was gone.
Third drop and he left his body.
I think that's brilliant.
>> The problem is we're
all too busy in LA.
People hardly take time to go
to yoga, let alone meditate.